Source: Oil eases on stronger dollar, China demand concerns.pdf
Text Content: SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Oil prices eased on Monday after seven straight weeks of gains supported by tightening supply on OPEC+ output cuts, as concerns about China's faltering economic recovery and a stronger dollar weighed. Brent crude futures fell 29 cents, or 0.3%, to $86.52 a barrel by 0033 GMT while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude was at $82.95 a barrel, down 24 cen ts, or 0.3%. Prices slipped as the U.S. dollar index extended gains on Monday after a slightly bigger increase in U.S. producer prices in July lifted Treasury yields despite expectations that the Federal Reserve is at the end of hiking interest rates. [FR X/] Oil may be range -bound this week as China's sluggish economic recovery and a stronger U.S. dollar could depress prices, but OPEC+ would do whatever it takes to keep supply tight and stabilise markets, CMC Markets analyst Tina Teng said. Supply cuts b y Saudi Arabia and Russia, part of the alliance between the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and their allies, or OPEC+, are expected to erode oil inventories in the rest of this year, potentially driving prices even higher, the Internatio nal Energy Agency said in its monthly report on Friday. Reflecting tightening supply, the price spread between first and second month Brent held steady on Monday after settling at 67 cents on Friday, the widest since March. A Russian warship fired warnin g shots at a cargo ship in the Black Sea on Sunday, ratcheting up tensions in a key area for commodities exports from Ukraine and Russia. "Escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine has raised the prospect of disruption to trade in the Black Sea," ANZ  analysts said in a note, adding that the Black Sea handles around 15%-20% of oil that Russia sells. In the U.S., the number of operating oil rigs held steady at 525 last week, after falling for eight weeks in a row, according to Baker Hughes weekly repor t. (Reporting by Florence Tan; Editing by Sonali Paul)
Metadata: {'Headline': 'Oil eases on stronger dollar, China demand concerns', 'Author': ['Florence Tan'], 'Date': '2023-08-13 20:53:00'}
--------------------------------------------------
Source: The Stock Market Is No Fun When Student Loan Payments Are About to Restart.pdf
Text Content: Playing the stock market no longer has the appeal for newbie investors it once did. The latest reason? Many would -be day traders  are about to start paying their student loans again. The retail -trading fir e of 2020 and 2021 has been just smoldering for months now.  Drops in crypto  and stocks in 2022 t urned off many amateur traders. High inflation left many with less cash to play with. The resulting jump in interest rates gave them lots of options for relatively risk -free ways to earn returns. Now,  student loan payments , set to restart in October, are another bucket of cold water on the fire. Emanu el Rodriguez, who is 22 and graduated this year from the University of Southern California with a communications degree, has enjoyed some success in his nascent investing foray. In 2021, he said, he cashed out a profit of about $4,500 after investing in do gecoin. But now, Rodriguez says he’s being more cautious. He’s still keeping some money in cryptocurrencies, but he deleted the  Robinhood  app from his phone and f ocuses more on saving. The  recent Supreme Court ruling , which knocked down  President Biden’s student -debt forgiveness plan, helped seal his decision. “My loans have been looming over me,” said Rodriguez, who is working as a page at NBC in Los Angeles and said he has about $5,000 in student loans. “If they were wiped, I w ould feel more comfortable investing.” He hopes to re -enter active investing someday, but only after paying off his debt and learning more about investing outside of crypto. Loan payments have been paused since March 2020, when the Covid pandemic hit the U .S. The restart could have implications across the economy.  Retailers, for one, could be hurt  as potentially billions of dollars each month start flowing back to student debt. The impact on the stock market itself might be limited. Young adults who have lost money during their short trading careers could feel particular pressure to pull back. A lot  of amateur investors have “probably been losing money to more sophisticated traders in the market over time,” said  Benjamin Edwards, a law professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “The only way they’re able to keep trading is by continuing to put  money in. It’s going to be players who get hot at the table but Vegas still wins.” People of all ages  embraced day trading  in the depths of the pandemic, when they were stuck at home and the market mostly zoomed higher. The pause in student loan payments didn’t hurt either. Many of the younger new traders have never known a world in which tradin g can’t be done with a few clicks on an app —or, for that matter, a world where they have to pay money toward their student loans each month. A survey released this year by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the CFA Institute found that 56% of  Gen Zers in the U.S., ages 18 to 25, had at least one investment. That included workplace -sponsored plans such as 401(k)s. The median amount invested was $4,000. Gen Z investors tend to favor cryptocurrencies and individual stocks, according to the surve y. Of course, staying in the market through both good times and bad is the best way to build long -term wealth, financial advisers say. But that doesn’t always help people who need money right away. The return of student -loan payments could mean a big hit  to many people’s monthly cash flow. The  Bank of America Institute  estimates that it will cost the median affected household about $180 a month. People who were ab le to save up during the student -loan moratorium are now going to have to spend down some of their savings, said  David Tinsley, senior economist at the Bank of America Institute. They might also have to put off saving for a home or storing up for retiremen t. “People need to start saving for retirement relatively young,” Tinsley said. “These are quite impactful decisions on individuals.”
Metadata: {'Headline': 'The Stock Market Is No Fun When Student Loan Payments Are About to Restart Another bucket of cold water threatens the once -hot trend of amateur day trading', 'Author': ['Amina Niasse'], 'Date': '2023-08-12 05:30:00'}
--------------------------------------------------
Source: U.S. Steel Rejects Offer From Cleveland-Cliffs.pdf
Text Content: U.S. Steel  X 0.98% increase;  green  up pointing  triangle  rejected  an unsolicited offer from rival  Cleveland -Cliffs  CLF  -0.07% decrease;  red down  pointing  triang le, stopping for now a deal that would significantly reshape the domestic steel industry. Cleveland -Cliffs said on Sunday it offered U.S. Steel $17.50 a share in cash and 1.023 shares of Cliffs stock, which would value U. S. Steel at more than $7 billion. Cleveland -Cliffs said the implied value of the offer is $35 a share. U.S. Steel stock closed at $22.72 on Friday. According to Cleveland -Cliffs, U.S. Steel’s board rejected the offer, calling it “unreasonable.” U.S. Steel said Sunday that it was reviewing “strategic alternatives.” Combining Cleveland -Cliffs and U.S. Steel would reduce the major steelmakers in the U.S. to three from four. Such a deal would strengthen Cleveland -Cliffs’ position in major steel -consuming indust ries, particularly appliances and automotive, where Cliffs is already the largest supplier of steel by volume. “We expect to create a lower -cost, more innovative and stronger domestic supplier for our customers,” Cleveland -Cliffs Chief Executive  Lourenco Goncalves  said. Created in 1901 by  J.P. Morgan , Andrew Carnegie and others, U.S. Steel played an integral role in the country’s industrialization  in the 20th century, supplying steel for everything from railroads to automobiles and skyscrapers. It is no longer one of the largest American companies, but remains a major player in the steel industry. U.S. Steel, Cleveland -Cliffs,  Nucor  and Steel Dynamics  account for most of the steel produced in the U.S. But Cleveland -Cliffs and U.S. Steel are considered the high -cost producers in the pack. Most of their steel mills are older and more expensive to operate than Nucor and Steel Dynamics’ plants. U.S. Steel and Cleveland -Cliffs’ mills are also mostly staffed by members of t he United Steelworkers. U.S. Steel said Sunday it was considering offers for all or parts of the 122 - year -old company from several parties, but only identified Cleveland -Cliffs by name. U.S. Steel Chief Executive  David Burritt  said the company has “commenc ed a comprehensive and thorough review of strategic alternatives.” Goncalves said Cleveland -Cliffs submitted its offer for U.S. Steel to the company’s board on July 28. He said over the following weeks he had no further engagement with U.S. Steel until rec eiving notification by a letter Sunday that said its board had rejected the offer. He said he decided to “make our proposal public to help expedite substantive engagement between our two companies.” U.S. Steel responded by releasing the letter it sent to C leveland -Cliffs, which said U.S. Steel wouldn’t go forward with negotiations unless Cleveland -Cliffs signed a nondisclosure agreement between the two companies.  U.S. Steel said Cleveland -Cliffs refused unless U.S. Steel accepted the economic terms of Cleve land -Cliffs’ offer in advance. Cleveland -Cliffs had no immediate comment. Goncalves’ pursuit of U.S. Steel is the latest in a series of swashbuckling moves in recent years that transformed Cleveland -Cliffs from an iron -ore mining company to a major steel p roducer. Goncalves acquired struggling Ohio -based AK Steel and most of the U.S. steel mills operated by Luxembourg -based  ArcelorMittal  as steel prices slumped during  the early days of the Covid -19 pandemic. The consolidation of the steel market coincided with a  major run -up in steel prices  caused by pandemic -related shortages and supply -chain problems. By fall 2021, the spot -market price of sheet steel had reached nearly $2,000 a ton from below $500 a ton in late 2019.  Steelmakers have been adding steel mills  to take advantage of the rising prices and the protection from cheaper foreign steel  provided by tariffs on imports. U.S. Steel also has benefited from higher steel prices. Since taking over as CEO in 2017, Burritt has reversed almost a decade’s worth of losses by closing some older mills and acquiring Big River Steel in Arkansas in 2021. The Big River purchase provided U.S. Steel with a lower -cost mill that produces steel from scrap melted in electric furnaces, instead of the iron - ore-based steelmaking at U.S. Steel’s other mills. U.S. Steel plans to double Big River’s annual capacit y to 6 million tons of steel. The company is also adding a line to produce special thin steel used in electric -vehicle motors. The only other steel company in the U.S. able to produce electrical steel is Cleveland -Cliffs. Copyright ©2023  Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 87990cbe856818d5eddac44c7b1cdeb8 Appeared in the August 14, 2023, print edition as 'U.S. Steel Reje cts Cleveland -Cliffs Takeover Offer'.
Metadata: {'Headline': 'U.S. Steel Rejects Offer From Cleveland -Cliffs Cleveland -Cliffs said it offered cash, stock worth $35 a share for its main competitor, valuing U.S. Steel at more than $7 billion', 'Author': ['Bob Tita'], 'Date': '2023-08-13 20:46:00'}
--------------------------------------------------
Source: What Wall Street’s Top Recession Gauge Is Saying Now.pdf
Text Content: Wall Street is growing confident the U.S.  can avoid a recession . But one key market indicator is still sending seemingly bleak signals. Right now, yields on longer -term U.S. Treasurys remain far below those of shorter -term bonds, an anomaly known as an inverted yield curve that has earned fame as a harbinger of downturns. That has left many investors questioning what the inversion means now. Here is a look at the possible answers: The basics A yield curve shows the annualized percentage return, or yield, that investors can get on Treasurys, from the three -month bill to the 30 -year bond, if held to maturity. Yields largely reflect investors’ expectatio ns for what short -term interest rates set by the Federal Reserve will average over the life of a bond —often plus a little extra for the risk of holding bonds for longer. Yield curve, U.S. Treasurys A warning signal Inverted y ield curves have taken on almost mythical status on Wall Street because of their recession -predicting track record. One popular measure is the gap between yields on 10 -year and 2 -year notes, known as the 2 -10 spread. Spread between two -year and 10 -year Tre asury yields, monthly Department (unemployment) Can this time be different? The simplest message sent by inverted yield curves is that investors think that short -term interest rates will be lower in the future than they are now. But that doesn’t mean that a recession is guaranteed. There have, in fact, been times when the Fed first raised, then lowered, rates and managed to skirt a recession. That might have even happened after it cut rates in 2019, if not for the pandemic. Federal Funds Effective Rates Investors and economists have become more optimistic in recent months because inflation has subsided even as unemployment has remained near a five -decade low. That is true even of the Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, which strips out volatile food and energy categories: Core Personal -consumption expenditures price index, 3 -month annualized change As the Fed sees it, short -term rates, adjusted for short -term inflation expectations, are currently above a so -called neutral level and therefore working to push inflation down. Notably, bond yields and Fed forecasts both sugge st that real rates will fall gradually over years before leveling off, a sign that investors and officials don’t foresee a sharp economic downturn. Fed officials have also said that they might cut rates partly just to offset falling inflation, which would drive up real rates if they didn’t take any action. Projected read fed -funds rate What to watch for The economy doesn’t typical ly enter a recession when the yield curve is inverted. Rather, the curve uninverts shortly before a recession, with short -term bond yields falling because the Fed is cutting rates or is on the verge of doing so. Yield Curve, Treasurys Analysts call this a “bull steepening” because bond prices are rallying, causing yields to fall, while the curve is getting steeper or uninverting. Recently, though, the bond market experienced a “bear steepening,” in whic h longer -term yields rose sharply but short -term yields edged only slightly higher. Yield curve, Treasurys The curve was becoming less inverted but not in the normal way:  Investors were growing more optimistic  about the economy and scaling back bets on interest -rate cuts. Going f orward, analysts see a decent chance that the yield curve could stay inverted longer than normal, given the unusually large yield -gap and the strength of the economy. But the inversion will end eventually and how it ends will be telling —whether the main ca use is falling interest rates or new bets that the economy can withstand higher rates than previously believed.
Metadata: {'Headline': 'What Wall Street’s Top Recession Gauge Is Saying Now Signs of economic strength bring new scrutiny to inverted yield curve', 'Author': ['Sam Goldfarb', 'Peter Santilli'], 'Date': '2023-08-12 23:00:00'}
--------------------------------------------------
Source: Yen Slides to Weakest Since November on Wide Japan-US Yield Gap.pdf
Text Content: (Bloomberg) -- The yen slid to its weakest level this year as a persistently wide interest -rate gap with the US weighs on the Japanese currency. Investors are now on guard for any sharp moves as traders return in Tokyo following a holiday in Japan on Friday. The currency depreciated past 145.07 and towards a zone that last year saw Japanese authorities intervene in  the market. It was at 145.18 at 9:35 a.m. Tokyo time on Monday, the weakest since November. The yen was under pressure last week, as a drop in Treasuries pushed up US yields. Benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond yields sit below 0.6%, versus more t han 4% for similar maturity Treasuries. While the BOJ adjusted its yield -curve control program on July 28 to make it more flexible — allowing 10 -year rates room to move up toward 1% — this has failed to stem weakness in the currency. That’s partly because  the central bank has also indicated it won’t tolerate a rapid move in yields, and bought JGBs to stem the climb. The central bank has repeatedly said that its adjustments to YCC are not steps toward an exit from ultra -easy monetary policy. Japan is the o nly nation that maintains a negative interest rate, which continues to weigh on the yen. The bout of pronounced weakness in the currency late last year drew Japanese authorities into the market on three occasions, in what were their first such interventio ns to support the yen since 1998. The first of the forays came as it tumbled toward 146. The yen has slumped about 9.5% against the dollar this year, making it the worst performer among key developed -market currencies. ©2023 Bloomberg L.P.
Metadata: {'Headline': 'Yen Slides to Weakest Since November on Wide Japan -US Yield Gap', 'Author': ['Yumi Teso', 'Matthew Burgess'], 'Date': '2023-08-13 20:38:00'}
--------------------------------------------------
